=head1 PHP Couchbase Tests

This is an extensive testsuite for the PHP couchbase client. This is a
work in progress to convert existing tests into the new format.

=head2 Layout

Currently there are tests in both C<tests> and C<unit>, where the former are the
legacy phpt-style tests, and the latter are the new tests utilizing
L<PHPUnit|https://github.com/sebastianbergmann/phpunit>

=head2 Usage

Build the php extension (i.e. C<php-ext-couchbase>) as normal.
The runtests.pl script (which in the future, will actually run the tests :))
will replace the upstream tests directory with the ones found here. These will
run the legacy tests; so
	./runtests.pl -s ~/src/php-ext-couchbase/ -h 10.3.121.209

Where -s is the source directory, and -h is the cluster entry point.

Then you can chdir back to the php-ext-couchbase directory and run make-test
as normal.

For the new-style tests, you should chdir into the C<unit> directory
and run something like
	
	EXTDIR=~/src/php-ext-couchbase
	./pwrap.sh -c test.xml

The server parameters for the revised tests are currently hard coded in that directory's
C<couchbase.local.inc>. Modify it as needed

You need to have C<PHPUnit> installed for the new tests; the C<pwrap.sh> script is a
wrapper around the C<phpunit> executable, which sets up the appropriate locations for
finding the couchbase extension

Additionally, it may be required to set up library paths for the couchbase.so extension
to find libcouchbase itself. Therefore you might want to do something like

	export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LCB_PREFIX/lib

where C<$LCB_PREFIX> is the C<--prefix> which libcouchbase was configured with.

On Darwin/OS X systems, the environment variable is C<DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH>.

M. Nunberg
